# Reading Notes

## Learn HTML
Creating Hyperlinks

1. To create a basic link, we wrap text or other content inside what element?

It gets wrapped into an anchor tag element \<a>

2. The href attribute contains what information?

It contains the hypertext reference, or the target which has the web address in it.

3. What are some ways we can ensure links on our pages are accessible to all readers?

- Don't repete the url
- Don't clutter it up by saying it's a link or link to
- Keeping everything as conceise as possible trying to not repete or add in unneeded verbage

## CSS Layout
CSS Layout: Normal Flow CSS Layout: Positioning

1. What is meant by “normal flow”?

The way web page elements will automatically outline themselves without the help of any css.

2. What are a few differences between block-level and inline elements?

Inline elements take up exactly as much space as they are and list horizontally, while block-level elements will take up the whole line and descend vertically.

3. ___ positioning is the default for every html element.

Static

4. Name a few advantages to using absolute positioning on an element.

It positions wihtout have to fuss with figuring out where the center is or manipulating it through troubleshooting, it bases it off how far away from other elements you specify. It also removes it from the normal flow and brings the other surrounding elements togehter to negate a gap. 

5. What is a key difference between fixed positioning and absolute positioning?

> Absolutely positioned elements are positioned with respect to a containing block, which is the nearest postioned ancestor. If there is no positioned ancestor, the viewport will be the containing block. Elements with fixed positioning are fixed with respect to the viewport—the viewport is always their containing block.

https://www.w3.org/wiki/CSS_absolute_and_fixed_positioning?source=post_page#:~:text=Absolutely%20positioned%20elements%20are%20positioned,is%20always%20their%20containing%20block.


## Learn JS
Functions – Reusable Blocks of Code

1. Describe the difference between a function declaration and a function invocation.

The function declaration is basically defining the function, or saying what it will do. Function invacation is when you call it, or tell it to run.


2. What is the difference between a parameter and an argument?

> the argument is the actual value supplied to a function, whereas the parameter is the variable inside the definition of the function. We can say that a parameter is a type that appears in function definitions, while an argument is an instance that appears in function calls.

https://www.techiedelight.com/difference-between-argument-parameter/

Miscellaneous
6 Reasons for Pair Programming

1. Pick 2 benefits to pair programming and reflect on how these benefits could help you on your coding journey.

One of the bigger take aways is mentioned in this article. Since coding is a language it's important to practice using it out loud. To me that helped a lot when I got to work with Leah, actually using the words to walk through the process with each other was another level of brain sink for me, making it more understood and readily available in my working knowledge. 
The idea that it would help to pair code to keep both parties more accountable. God knows I need more reasons to NOT allow myself to procrastinate. 