# Reading Notes

## Continue Reading Introduction to HTML

1. Why is it important to use semantic elements in our HTML?

They help us to structure web pages in a way that makes them easier to function and absorb. 

>Semantic HTML is the correct use of HTML to reinforce the meaning of content on a web page, rather than merely define its appearance.

Semantically correct HTML helps search engines, screen readers, and other user devices determine the significance and context of web content. In order to effectively represent the meaning of content, appropriate HTML elements are chosen according to inherent meaning, rather than how they appears visually on a rendered web page.

http://www.springboardseo.com/resources/what-is/semantic-html.html

2. How many levels of headings are there in HTML?

six

3. What are some uses for the \<sup> and \<sub> elements?

Dates, mathmatical equations, or chemical formulations. 

\<sup> is up \<sub> goes down.

4. When using the <abbr> element, what attribute must be added to provide the full expansion of the term?

title

## Learn CSS 

1. What are ways we can apply CSS to our HTML?

    External style sheet, internal style sheet, or inline

2. Why should we avoid using inline styles?

It creates a quigmire of code, also if there are stylings intended to be executed onto multiple pages of the site, the programer would have to go into every single page and edit as opposed to editing one style sheet and having it applied across the board. 

3. Review the block of code below and answer the following questions:

    -What is representing the selector?

h2

    -Which components are the CSS declarations?

the color and padding

    -Which components are considered properties?

color 


    /  h2 {
    / color: black;
    / padding: 5px;
    /}


  ## Learn JS  
    
1. What data type is a sequence of text enclosed in single quote marks?

string

2. List 4 types of JavaScript operators.

- addition, subtraction, multiplication, division (+, -, *, /)

- Assignment (=)

- Strictly equal to (===)

- Not, does not equal to (!, !===)

3. Describe a real world Problem you could solve with a Function.

From the sounds of it, functions concern themselves with some sort of input from the user, so in regards to a real world problem, a lot website interactivity could be solved by using functions.


## Conditionals

1. An if statement checks a __ and if it evaluates to ___, then the code block will execute.

An if statement checks a <u>condition</u> and if it evaluates to <u>true</u>, then the code block will execute.

2. What is the use of an else if?

It give the website a little bit of versatility regarding user interaction, allowing for options.

3. List 3 different types of comparison operators.

- === and !==
- < or >
- <= or =>



4. What is the difference between the logical operator && and ||?

Let a = false    b = true

a && b = false

a || b = true 

