# Reading Notes

## CSS Transforms

### What does a CSS transform allow the developer to do to an element?

It's a way to transform the element in either a 2d or 3d form but manipulating them on their axis'.

### Provide an example of a transform and how you could see that being used on a website.

I liked the last example they provided that was the 3d multi-layered spinning. I imagine (albeit a very intricate and relatively elaborate example) a model of a globe spinnng on it's axis.

## CSS Transitions & Animations

### What does a CSS transition allow the developer to do to an element?

A transition allows a developer to shift between two values over a specified period of time. Transitions can be applied to multiple aspects of the element, such as color or shape.

### How does a CSS animation differ from a CSS transition?

>Transition:

> - Needs a triggering element (:hover, :focus etc.)
> - Only 2 animation states (start and end)
> - Used for simpler animations (buttons, dropdown menus and so on)
> - Easier to create but not so many animation/effect possibilities

>Animation @keyframes:

> - It can be used for endless animations
> - Can set more than 2 states
> - No boundaries

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/20586143/css-animation-vs-transition

## 8 simple CSS3 transitions that will wow your users

### What are some benefits to using CSS transitions on websites?

It helps to engage the user, to make the site more visually interesting and helps to draw attention to key points.

### How this topic fit in with your long-term goals?

There are quite a few little tricks, that seem like they could have a lot of applications to make a website more fun to interact with and also make it more easy to show the users how to use the site itself, to make it easier to navigate. It also seems like a lot of these are just premade code that you could google and be able to snag them from different sites. 