# Reading Notes

## Domain Modeling

### Explain why we need domain modeling.
>Domain Modeling is a way to describe and model real world entities and the relationships between them, which collectively describe the problem domain space. Derived from an understanding of system-level requirements, identifying domain entities and their relationships provides an effective basis for understanding and helps practitioners design systems for maintainability, testability, and incremental development.

© Scaled Agile, Inc.
Include this copyright notice with the copied content.

Read the FAQs on how to use SAFe content and trademarks here:
https://www.scaledagile.com/about/about-us/permissions-faq/

## HTML Table Basics

### Why should tables not be used for page layouts?
1. Layout tables reduce accessablity
2. It's a mess of tags that can make it difficult to read and maintain
3. Tables are not automatically responsive in regards to layout

### List and describe 3 different semantic HTML elements used in an HTML <table>.

\<table> this is the tag to initiate the table.

\<td> means 'table data', it translates to being a cell within the table. 

\<tr> means 'table row' and it tells the computer that it's time to start a new row, grouping the cells together in a line.

\<th> means a 'table head' which can be used as a catagory, they have intrinsic values built in such as being bolded and centered.


## Introducing Constructors

### What is a constructor and what are some advantages to using it?

>A constructor is a special function that creates and initializes an object instance of a class. In JavaScript, a constructor gets called when an object is created using the new keyword.
The purpose of a constructor is to create a new object and set values for any existing object properties.

https://rollbar.com/blog/javascript-constructors/#:~:text=A%20constructor%20is%20a%20special,for%20any%20existing%20object%20properties.

The advantage to using a contructor is that you don't have to recreate a unique object every time you want to add one. If they are all structured the same you can just use a constructor with the new information to create another object.

### How does the term this differ when used in an object literal versus when used in a constructor?

> It binds 'this' to the new object, so you can refer to 'this' in your constructor code.


## Object Prototypes Using A Constructor

### Explain prototypes and inheritance via an analogy from your previous work experience.
NOTE: This is a very common front end developer interview question

In the spirit of describing the kitchen through the eyes of prototypical inheritance: while everyone in the kitchen may be a line cook, not all the line cooks can be a saute station line cook. Even saute station line cooks are not the sous chef. 

Bookmark and Review

HTML Table Advanced Features and Accessibility