# Reading Notes

## JavaScript Canvas

### What does the canvas allow a developer to achieve?

Allows one to draw 2D graphics using JavaScript.

### What is the importance of the closing /canvas tag?

It's required, and anything that is within the tags is also fallback content just in case the browser doesn't support canvas.

### Explain what the getContext() method does.

It returns a render context object.

## Chart.js Documentation:

### What is Chart.js and how it can be brought into your project?

>Chart.js provides a set of frequently used chart types, plugins, and customization options. In addition to a reasonable set of built-in chart types, you can use additional community-maintained chart types . On top of that, it’s possible to combine several chart types into a mixed chart (essentially, blending multiple chart types into one on the same canvas).
>Chart.js is highly customizable with custom plugins to create annotations, zoom, or drag-and-drop functionalities to name a few things.
https://www.chartjs.org/docs/latest/

### List 3 different Chart types you can create using Chart.js.

- Geo: add geographic map chart types like choropleth and bubble map.
- Venn: adds venn and euler chart type.
- Treemap: adds tree map chart type.

## Easily Create Stunning Animated Charts with Chart.js

### What are some advantages to displaying data via a chart over a table?

Much of the time using a chart will help the reader to translate the raw data, since it helps to quantify the information in a visually please way. It actually displays the data instead of simply presenting it. While still being the same information tables can be boring to look at, which charts tend to be easier to understand. 

### How could Chart.js aid your previously created applications visually?

A pie chart would have been a really nice way to display the information gathered in the odd duck poll. 