# Reading

## Review if helpful: An Introduction to Node.js on sitepoint.com

- How would you describe Node to a non-technical friend?

Within the environment that programing languages run in, Node helps by making sure the "runner" has a sleek aerodynamic suit, the best running shoes, and even makes sure the wind is at his back. Node does it's best to provide up-to-date tools in order to help it run as fast and efficiently as possible.

- What does it mean that Node is a JavaScript runtime?

> The JavaScript runtime is a program that extends the JavaSciript engine and provides additional functionalities, so it can interact with the outside world. Also, the JS runtime provides features/APIs to build Javascript based software.

> https://algodaily.com/lessons/introduction-to-js-engines-and-runtimes

According to many Node.js is the best option

- What is Node used for?

It's a program that can be used to execute JavaScript on our computer.

## Additional Questions

- Looking ahead at this module’s course schedule, 
What do you look forward to learning?

I am curious about what the AWS is all about, since this class isn't the first time I've heard about it. I'm nervously excited to see what all the white board entails. Lastly, I didn't really understand what the bearer auth was when we went through it in 301, just that it was needed, so it's good to see that we will be going over that in more depth.


- What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

I'm mostly just excited about getting back into the thick of it again. I'm hoping that the previous material we worked on in 301 comes back enough that the review builds a good foundation to support the next ten weeks.