# Reading
## Redux Toolkit (RTK)

### What concerns are addressed by Redux Toolkit?

> - "Configuring a Redux store is too complicated"
> - "I have to add a lot of packages to get Redux to do anything useful"
> - "Redux requires too much boilerplate code"

### What does configureStore() do?

> configureStore(): wraps createStore to provide simplified configuration options and good defaults. It can automatically combine your slice reducers, adds whatever Redux middleware you supply, includes redux-thunk by default, and enables use of the Redux DevTools Extension.

### How would I use createSlice()?

> createSlice(): accepts an object of reducer functions, a slice name, and an initial state value, and automatically generates a slice reducer with corresponding action creators and action types.

## MobX

### What is Mobx?

> MobX is a simple, scalable... state management solution.

### How does MobX make it “impossible” to produce an inconsistent state?

> The strategy to achieve that is simple: Make sure that everything that can be derived from the application state, will be derived. Automatically.

### How would we build a reactive user interface?

> ...wrapping the React component in autorun. This keeps the component in sync with the state. ...The only MobX specific code in there is the observer wrapping. That is enough to make sure that each component individually re-renders when relevant data changes. 

## Tutorial
## Tutorial

### What take-away(s) did this tutorial provide?

Redux is wide ranging and super helpful, and the toolkit can be a great asset when trying to keep track of state.

## Bookmark and Review
Redux Toolkit (RTK)

HookState

## Reflection
### What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

After reading about seemingly everything else, I'm curious what Ducks is. 