# Reading

## nosql vs sql

### What type of database is the best fit for the complex query intensive environment?

SQL databases

### What type of database is the best fit for hierarchical data storage?

NoSQL

### Describe the differences in scalability between a SQl and NoSQL database as though you were speaking to a non-technical friend.

SQL databases are good if you need a warehouse with organization and structure, and heck, if you need more room, you can build another wharehouse next to your exsisting warehouse. 

NoSQL is like a light speed rail, a lot of traffic and sometime seems chaotic but it handle all the taffic. 

## sql modeling techniques

### Among data tables, what is a one-to-many relationship and how do we “relate” them?

> a row in table A can have many matching rows in table B. But a row in table B can have only one matching row in table A.
>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/office/troubleshoot/access/define-table-relationships

### Prior to designing your relational database, it might be useful to ___ a ___ of the database tables and their relationships.



### Explain the difference between a primary and foreign key.

> A primary key generally focuses on the uniqueness of the table. It assures the value in the specific column is unique. A foreign key is generally used to build a relationship between the two tables. The table allows only one primary key.
> https://byjus.com/gate/difference-between-primary-key-and-foreign-key/

## Videos
## sql vs nosql

### How do we treat keywords and parameters differently in SQL syntax?



### Define normalization within the context of schemas and data.

> In normalization, columns are assigned to tables in such a way that each business fact is stored only once, or in other words, a table should not contain duplicate data.
> https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/normalized-schema#:~:text=In%20normalization%2C%20columns%20are%20assigned,should%20not%20contain%20duplicate%20data.

### Explain the difference between one-to-one, one-to-many, and many-to-many relationships to a non-technical recruiter.



## Reflection

### What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?