# Reading
## An introduction to NodeJS and Express

### Explain middleware, answer as though I were a non-technical recruiter.

Middleware is like a server at a restaurent.They don't actually make the food, but they get your order and ring it in to the kitchen, in the mean time they can also bring drinks from the drink station or bar, they can get you silverware and napkins, and then when the food is ready they can bring that to you as well. They do a lot of asking and getting and most times are able to provide tools for what is needed. 

### Express the most popular __ __ ____.

Node web framework

### Express is “unopinionated.” What does that mean?

> Unopinionated frameworks, by contrast, have far fewer restrictions on the best way to glue components together to achieve a goal, or even what components should be used. They make it easier for developers to use the most suitable tools to complete a particular task, albeit at the cost that you need to find those components yourself.
>https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Express_Nodejs/Introduction

### What is a module and why is modularity useful to us as developers?

a JavaScript library or file that you can import into other code useing the Node's require() function.

## What is NPM?

### What version of npm are you running on your machine?



### What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’ into your node project?



## What is TDD?

### Explain why tests are important. Please explain as though I were your non technical elder.



### What are three expected benefits of testing



### Name at lest 2 individual pitfalls and at least 2 team pitfalls commonly encountered while writing tests.



## CI/CD

### What are three benefits of Continuous Integration?



### What is the difference between Continuos Delivery and Continuous Deployment?



### Explain how GitHub fits into this process assuming the listener comes from a non-technical background


## Reflection

### What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?