# Reading
## Gatsby and next.js Resources
Learn Next.js

Gatsby Tutorial

Next.js Docs

Gatsby.js Docs

#### Look over the above content.
### Teach us two things about Next.js.

Next.js is a framework for building web applications. You can build user interfaces using react components, then, Next.js provides additional structure, features, and optimizations for your app.

These are some of their main features:
- Routing
- Rendering
- Data fetching
- Styling
- Optimizations
- Typescript
-API reference

### Teach us two things about Gatsby.js.

Two important things about Gatsby.js:
- Fast Websites: Gatsby.js makes websites load quickly by preparing the content in advance. It creates static files that contain the website's content, so when someone visits the website, the information is already there and can be shown immediately. This makes the website feel fast and responsive.

- Easy Website Deployment: Gatsby.js simplifies the process of putting a website online. It generates static files that can be uploaded to different hosting platforms. This means you don't need a complicated setup or a special server to run your website. You can use simple servers or content delivery networks (CDNs) to deliver your website to people all around the world.

### Bookmark and Review
AngularJS

Angular

vue

backbone

ember

knockout

Laravel (php)

### Reflection
### What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

I've always been interested in how SEO works. Also, wondering if we're gonna make gatsby and next fight to the death, or if they can work together...?