# Reading
## Thinking in React

### Summarize the five steps of thinking in react.

1. Break the UI into a component hierarchy
- Programming
- CSS
- Design
2. Build a static version in React 
3. Find the minimal but complete representation of UI state
> - Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it isn’t state.
> - Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it isn’t state.
> - Can you compute it based on existing state or props in your component? If so, it definitely isn’t state!
4. Identify where your state should live
> 1. Identify every component that renders something based on that state.
> 2. Find their closest common parent component—a component above them all in the hierarchy.
> 3. Decide where the state should live:
> - Often, you can put the state directly into their common parent.
> - You can also put the state into some component above their common parent.
> - If you can’t find a component where it makes sense to own the state, create a new component solely for holding the state and add it somewhere in the hierarchy above the common parent component.
5. Add inverse data flow


## State: A Component’s Memory

### What is one reason a local variable isn’t sufficient for managing a React component?

Local variables have limited scope. 

### What is the argument to the useState hook, and what are the two parts of its return array?

- state variable
- state setter function 

### How can Component A access state from Component B?

Lifting the satate up to a common ancestor and pass it down as props to the components that need access.

## Bookmark and Review
Keep these pages handy - they answer questions that show up regularly for this lab.

Passing Props to a Component
Rendering Lists
State as Snapshot
useState hook

## Reflection
### What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

I am excited for hooks, they would have been hugely helpful in our past final project but we weren't allowed to use them, so I am eager to learn of their power!