# Reading
## AWS API Gateway Overview

### What is Amazon API Gateway?

Amazon API Gateway is a fully managed service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS) that enables developers to create, publish, maintain, and secure APIs for their applications. It acts as a front-door or entry point for clients to access backend services or resources.

### Why is Amazon API Gateway an important part of the Serverless ecosystem?

It is a serverless API manager, it allows for event-driven development, it can be easily integrated with other AWS services, it provides security and authorization, it provides scalability, it allows you to enable request transformations and validation to ensure the data is in the expected format, and it provides monitoring and analytics. 

### How does API Gateway integrate with other AWS services?

Seamlessly, they are all AWS products, afterall. Which is to say it can integrate directly with the following:
- Lambda
- DynamoDB
- S3
- Step Functions
- Cognito
- CloudWatch
- WAF

## AWS API Gateway

### What are the some benefits of using Amazon API Gateway?

- Easy API Creation and Management
- Scalability
- Security and Access Control
- Integration with Serverless Functions
- Flexible Data Transformations
- API Monitoring and Analytics
- Easy Deployment and Versioning
- Cost Optimization

### What two API types might you choose from?

RESTful or websocket

## AWS DynamoDB Guide

### What is DynamoDB?

DynamoDB is a hosted NoSQL database offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS)

### Under what circumstances would you recommend DynamoDB over MongoDB?

If you want a database that is easy to use and doesn't require you to manage servers, DynamoDB is a good choice. It can handle lots of data and traffic without slowing down. It works well with other Amazon services and ensures your data is always available.

But if you need more flexibility in how you store and search your data, MongoDB might be a better fit. It allows for complex queries and lets you change the data structure easily. However, you'll need to manage the servers yourself.

## AWS DynamoDB

### Explain to a non-technical friend how DynamoDB works.

DynamoDB is a super organized digital notebook that can store lots of information. It helps you find things quickly using special keys, keeps your data safe, and can handle lots of people using it at the same time. It can also grow bigger when needed.

## Dynamoose

### What is Dynamoose?

>Dynamoose is a modeling tool for Amazon's DynamoDB. ... it is heavily inspired by Mongoose, which means if you are coming from Mongoose the syntax will be very familiar.

### What are some key features of Dynamoose?

> - Type safety
> - High level API
> - Easy to use syntax
> - DynamoDB Single Table Design Support
>- Ability to transform data before saving or retrieving items
>- Strict data modeling (validation, required attributes, and more)
>- Support for DynamoDB Transactions
>- Powerful Conditional/Filtering Support
>- Callback & Promise support
>- AWS Multi-region support
>https://dynamoosejs.com/getting_started/Introduction

## Reflection

### What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

I want to know what it takes to integrate a serverless system and how that would change the design of the scaffolding that we have been using. 