# Reading
## AWS EC2

### What is an EC2 Instance?



### Name 2 use cases for EC2.

- Running a back end server
- Dev and testing environments

### Provide 1 reason to use ECS instead of a service such as Heroku, Digital Ocean, or Render.com.

Scalability

## EC2 For Humans

### Where can we find EC2 on the AWS Console?

Under the compute section

### Explain the general difference between T2 Micro and XL.

- Size and computing capacity
- Burst preformance and CPU credits
- Cost

### Explain a “Compute Cycle” to a non-technical friend.

A compute cycle is like a single step a computer takes to do something. It's similar to how you follow steps to complete a task. For example, when you use a calculator to add numbers, pressing the buttons and getting the result is one compute cycle. In a computer, there are lots of these steps happening very quickly to do different tasks like processing information or solving problems. So, a compute cycle is just a small part of the work a computer does to get things done.

## Elastic Beanstalk

### What is Elastic Beanstalk?


Elastic Beanstalk is a fully managed service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS) that simplifies the deployment, management, and scaling of web applications.

### Describe the relationship between EC2 and Elastic Beanstalk.

Elastic Beanstalk is like a helpful assistant that uses EC2 instances (virtual servers) to run your applications in the cloud. It takes care of setting up and managing the servers for you, so you can focus on writing your application code. Elastic Beanstalk makes it easier to deploy and run your applications without worrying too much about the technical details of managing the servers.

### Name some benefits of using Elastic Beanstalk.

- Simplified deployment
- Easy app management
- Scalability
- Integration with AWS
- Multi-platform support
- Cost
- (CI/CD)

## Bookmark and Review
Virtual Machines

VMS and the Cloud

## Additional Questions

### Looking ahead at this module’s course schedule, What do you look forward to learning?

Having known about needing the AWS, I am curious as to how to use it and what it's all about. 

### What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

I am curious about containers and the cloud and how the virtual server is explained. 