# Reading Notes

## nosql vs sql

### five differences between SQL and NoSQL databases:

- SQL databases are usually called relational databases whereas NoSQL are usually referred to as non-relational or distributed databases.
- SQL are table based and NoSQL is document based. 
- SQL are predefind, NoSQL are dynamic.
- SQL s are vertically scalable where NoSQLs are horizontally scalable.
- SQL uses SQL (or sturctured query language) for defining and manipulating data, For NoSQL it uses UnQL (or unstructured query language) which can vary from database to database.

### What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?

"Complex query intensive environments."

### Give a real world example.

I would imagine anything that needed to track a large amount of data points, that could then be searched through. Time tracking temperature for example.

### What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?

"Hierarchical data storage"

### Give a real world example.

I think lab 11 would qualify, there are descriptions and titles and availability. 

### Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?

NoSQL

### Which type of database is best for scalability?

They are both scalable, just depends on which one it is. SQL is vertically scalable and you can increase the load by adding CPU, RAM, SSD etc onto a single server. NoSQL is also scalable, but horizontally, and you can increase it by adding more servers. 

## sql vs nosql (Video)

### What does SQL stand for?

Structured Query Language

### What is a relational database?

> A relational database is a type of database that stores and provides access to data points that are related to one another. Relational databases are based on the relational model, an intuitive, straightforward way of representing data in tables. In a relational database, each row in the table is a record with a unique ID called the key. The columns of the table hold attributes of the data, and each record usually has a value for each attribute, making it easy to establish the relationships among data points.
> https://www.oracle.com/database/what-is-a-relational-database/


### What type of structure does a relational database work with?

Tables

### What is a ‘schema’?

> A database schema defines how data is organized within a relational database; this is inclusive of logical constraints such as, table names, fields, data types, and the relationships between these entities. Schemas commonly use visual representations to communicate the architecture of the database, becoming the foundation for an organization’s data management discipline. 
> https://www.ibm.com/topics/database-schema

### What is a NoSQL database?

A database that is built to store lots of data in an efficent way.

### How does it work?

Within the database there are collections, within those collections they have documents. Relations are not necessary and not all information is needed. They are more flexible than SQL.

### What is inside of a MongoDB database?

See the first sentence to the last answer.

### Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.

MongoDB, see below.

### What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?

No schemas, no relations, data is usually nested.