# Reading Notes

## An Introduction to Node.js on sitepoint.com

### What is node.js?

According to stack overflow it is:
> Node.js is an event-based, non-blocking, asynchronous I/O runtime that uses Google’s V8 JavaScript engine and libuv library.

### In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?

It is open sourced Javascript engine that compiles to the most efficient machine code prior to execution. 

### What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?

It refers to where your javascript is executed when you run it.

### What is npm?

a node package manager

### What version of node are you running on your machine?

19.4.0

### What version of npm are you running on your machine?

9.2.0

### What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?

npm install -g jshint

### What is node used for?

Letting us run javascript on the server.

## 6 Reasons for Pair Programming

### What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?

1. Greater efficiency
2. Engaged collaboration
3. Learning from fellow students
4. Social skills
5. Job interview readiness
6. Work environment readiness

### In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?

In my experience 2 and 3 have been most beneficial. In 201 we did a mob programing situation and it was really helpful becuase there were multiple ways to achieve the end goal and we all ended up talking out which way would be the best and why. Getting someone elses perspective on how to solve a problem is always a great way to learn. 

### How does pair programming work?

There is a driver and a navigator, the drivers job is to operate the keyboard, they are the one who writes the code. The navigator is there to help with input, vocalizing the code and adding helpful direction, the they get stuck, the navigator is available to look things up that might move the team forward. 