# Reading Notes

## React Docs - Thinking in React

### What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?

A component should only do one thing, if it gets bigger it shoulld broken down into smaller subcomponents. 

### What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?

To build a static version of an application basically means to build a version that takes the data model and renders a UI but has no interactivity. In a static version it is important to use props and not state. This is helpful to flush out all the components and see how the application will be laid out and function without user interaction that may create problems. 

### Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?

props?

### What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?

- Is it passed in from a parent via props?
- does it remain unchanged over time?
- Can you compute it based on any other state or props in your component? 

If the answer is yes to these, they are probably not state. 

### How can you identify where state needs to live?

>Identify every component that renders something based on that state.

>Find a common owner component (a single component above all the components that need the state in the hierarchy).

>Either the common owner or another component higher up in the hierarchy should own the state.

>If you can’t find a component where it makes sense to own the state, create a new component solely for holding the state and add it somewhere in the hierarchy above the common owner component.

>https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html

## Higher-Order Functions

### What is a “higher-order function”?



### Explore the greaterThan function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?



### Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions.